Add EIP-6366: Permission Token (#6366)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-draft_permission_token.md

---

> eip: draft_permission_token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 6366
```

title: Permission Token
description: A new token that held the permission of an address in an ecosystem
author: Chiro (@chiro-hiro)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-644-a-standard-for-permission-token/9105
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-01-19
---

## Abstract

> A new token standard that held the permission of an address in an ecosystem. A permission token can be transferred/delegated by the permission owner to an grantee's address.

Reviewer: The abstract should contain complete sentences.

## Motivation

> You may still encounter special roles like `Owner`, `Operator`, `Manager`, `Validator` in many existing smart contracts because we're still using permissioned addresses to operate and manage them. It is difficult to audit and maintain since these permissions are not managed centrally in a single smart contract.

Reviewer: No 2nd person:
```suggestion
Special roles like `Owner`, `Operator`, `Manager`, `Validator` are common for many smart contracts because permissioned addresses are used to operate and manage them. It is difficult to audit and maintain these system since these permissions are not managed centrally in a single smart contract.
```
That second sentence is wrong: they *are* stored "centrally" in a single smart contract. Ignoring that minor falsehood, the rest of this paragraph is okay.

> To secure the communication between smart contracts, this EIP provides a straightforward, centralized, and scalable method for managing permissions.

Reviewer: Where did communication enter the picture?

## Specification

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

```

> We RECOMMENDED to define permissions are power of 2, that allowed us to create up to `2^256` different roles.

Reviewer: Why not use `bytes32` and use keccak hashes of strings? Also, wouldn't this limit the specification to 256 roles?

Author: [EIP-5982](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5982) is based on roles meanwhile EIP-6366 is based on permissions (bottom up approach).  

Apparently, `keccak256(string)` is cost more than a bitwise operator on `uint256` that's why I supposed to use `uint256` to store permissions of an account. We can define a single permission is power of 2 (1 bit is represented for 1 permission) and then combine them with `OR` operator to create roles. 

**Example 1**, Here is how we define permissions and roles.

```
const PERMISSION_NONE = 0;
const PERMISSION_READ = 1; // 2⁰
const PERMISSION_WRITE = 2; // 2¹
const PERMISSION_EXECUTE = 4; // 2²

// Role admin = 4 | 2 | 1 = 7
const ROLE_ADMIN = PERMISSION_READ | PERMISSION_WRITE | PERMISSION_EXECUTE;
// Role operator = 1 | 2 = 3
const ROLE_OPERATOR = PERMISSION_READ | PERMISSION_WRITE;
```

**Example 2**, The verification is much more flexible and efficient, you can check a single permission or a subset of permission by using `AND` operator.

```
checkingPermission & ROLE_OPERATOR == ROLE_OPERATOR
```

A single permission token can define 256 permissions and 2²⁵⁶ roles.

Reviewer: Huh. That's neat!

> **NOTES**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Notes
```
No using bold for headings

**Note**:

- `_permission` MUST be a subset of all available permission of permission owner.
- `approve()` method SHOULD `revert` if granting `_permission` permission is not a subset of all available permission of permission owner.

```solidity
function approve(address _delegatee, uint256 _permission) external returns (bool success)
```

#### delegated

Returns the subset permission of the `_owner` address were granted to `_delegatee` address.

```solidity
function delegated(address _owner, address _delegatee) external view returns (uint256 permission)
```

### Events

#### Transfer

MUST trigger when permission are transferred, including zero permission transfers.

A token contract which creates new tokens SHOULD emit a `Transfer` event with the `_from` address set to `address(0x00)` when tokens are created.

```solidity
event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)
```

#### Approval

MUST trigger on any successful call to `approve(address _delegatee, uint256 _permission)`.

```solidity
event Approval(address indexed _owner, address indexed _delegatee, uint256 _permission)
```

> ## Rationale
> 
> - Permission tokens describe an alternative to Access Control Lists (ACLS) for providing authorisation and improving security.
> 
> - Permission token balance of the relevant account in the supplied ecosystem is used to reflect permission and role.
> 
> - The ecosystem operator will benefit from centrally managing all rights and responsibilities since it will make granting and revoking permissions easier.
> 
> - The permission owner may assign a portion of their authority to the delegatee so that they may act on the smart contract in their place. This type of delegation is still in use today, as may be seen in daily life.
> 
> - Cross-interactivity between different ecosystems will be simpler since permission tokens make it simple to issue authorization to external smart contracts.

Reviewer: This section reads like motivation. Please move this content to the motivation section.

It is okay to have a placeholder for the rationale section.
```suggestion
## Rationale

Needs discussion.
```

## Reference Implementation

### Implement

> `ERC-644`'s interface in `./IERC644.sol`.

Reviewer: This file does not exist.

Author: I moved the implementation to the other place, this should be fixed.

```solidity

> // SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
```
This must be CC0. This is non-negotiable.

pragma solidity ^0.8.7;

interface IERC644 {
  error AccessDenied(address _owner, address _actor, uint256 _permission);

  error DuplicatedPermission(uint256 _permission);

  event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value);

  event Approval(address indexed _owner, address indexed _delegatee, uint256 _permission);

  function transfer(address _to, uint256 _permission) external returns (bool success);

  function approve(address _delegatee, uint256 _permission) external returns (bool success);

  function name() external view returns (string memory);

  function symbol() external view returns (string memory);

  function permissionOf(address _owner) external view returns (uint256 permission);

  function permissionRequire(uint256 _required, uint256 _permission) external pure returns (bool isPermission);

  function delegated(address _owner, address _delegatee) external view returns (uint256 permission);
}
```

Simplest implement of Permission Token

```solidity

> // SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
```
This must be CC0. This is non-negotiable.

    address owner = msg.sender;
    delegations[_uniqueKey(owner, _delegatee)] = _permission;
    emit Approval(owner, _delegatee, _permission);
    return true;
  }

  function _uniqueKey(address _owner, address _delegatee) private pure returns (bytes32) {
    return keccak256(abi.encodePacked(_owner, _delegatee));
  }

  function name() external pure override returns (string memory) {
    return 'OpenPermissionToken';
  }

  function symbol() external pure override returns (string memory) {
    return 'OPT';
  }

  function permissionOf(address _owner) external view override returns (uint256 permission) {
    return permissions[_owner];
  }

  function permissionRequire(
    uint256 _required,
    uint256 _permission
  ) external pure override returns (bool isPermission) {
    return _required == _permission & _required;
  }

  function delegated(address _owner, address _delegatee) external view override returns (uint256 permission) {
    // Delegated permission can't be the superset of owner's permission
    return delegations[_uniqueKey(_owner, _delegatee)] & permissions[_owner];
  }
}
```

Example use case:

```solidity

> // SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
```
This must be CC0. This is non-negotiable.
